backend/doc/protocol.md, before:

# Game Communication Protocol

## Messages

### Player starts a new game

 - Sent by the player
   - request for new game with player name
 - Sent by the server
   - game id

### Player joins the Game

 - Sent by the player
   - game id
   - player name
 - Sent by the server
   - Game Started message to both players

### Game Started (sent by the server)

 - Current player name
 - Opponent name
 - Map size
 - Player HQ position on the Map
 - Building and unit costs
 - Building and unit field of vision (as in how far units see)
 - Unit moving speed, fire rate and bullet speed
 - Positions of player owned buildings and units

### Game Status (sent by the server)

  - Player unit Status
    - Position
    - Current state
      - moving to coordinates
      - firing at coordinates
      - gathering resources
      - idle
      - under construction
      - new (on the tick when the unit becomes ready, idle on next tick)
  - Player building status
    - building unit
    - constructing a new building
    - idle
    - new (same as with units)
  - Things in the player field of vision
    - Walls
    - Resources
    - Enemy units
  - List of unprocessable commands?
    - Build site obstructed?
    - Not enough resources to build?
    - Moving not possible?

### Player initiated commands (sent by players)

  - Build a new building at given coordinates
  - Build a new unit from given factory
  - Move unit to coordinates
  - Order unit to fire to given coordinates

Everything is a list, meaning player can instruct units to move in a path, fire
to multiple different targets, build multiple units and construct multiple
buildings. The server will cache the commands and process them one by one.

### Game End (sent by the server)

  - You have won/lost

### Error conditions

  - Client disconnected
    - Game paused, give other player a few seconds to connect
    - Game End if player does not reconnect on grace period
  - Server error
    - Game over, sorry

## Future Ideas

### Game Started

 - Game Speed (i.e. how many milliseconds per tick)
 - Player and Opponent Factions (if we decide to implement more than one)

### Player commands

  - Select where the factory builds the new unit

Commit message:

Add scoring and resource gathering info

backend/doc/protocol.md, after:

# Game Communication Protocol

## Messages

### Player starts a new game

 - Sent by the player
   - request for new game with player name
 - Sent by the server
   - game id

### Player joins the Game

 - Sent by the player
   - game id
   - player name
 - Sent by the server
   - Game Started message to both players

### Game Started (sent by the server)

 - Current player name
 - Opponent name
 - Map size
 - Player HQ position on the Map
 - Building and unit costs
 - Building and unit field of vision (as in how far units see)
 - Unit moving speed, fire rate and bullet speed
 - Positions of player owned buildings and units
 - Scoring rule (how is the score calculated, see [Mechanics](mechanics.md))
 - Total number of turns in the game

### Game Status (sent by the server)

  - Turn number
  - Turns remaining
  - Player unit Status
    - Position
    - Current state
      - moving to coordinates
      - firing at coordinates
      - gathering resources
      - idle
      - under construction
      - new (on the tick when the unit becomes ready, idle on next tick)
  - Player building status
    - building unit
    - constructing a new building
    - idle
    - new (same as with units)
  - Things in the player field of vision
    - Walls
    - Resources
    - Enemy units
  - List of unprocessable commands?
    - Build site obstructed?
    - Not enough resources to build?
    - Moving not possible?

### Player initiated commands (sent by players)

  - Build a new building at given coordinates
  - Build a new unit from given factory
  - Move unit to coordinates
  - Order unit to fire to given coordinates
  - Gather resources with the unit at its current position

Everything is a list, meaning player can instruct units to move in a path, fire
to multiple different targets, build multiple units and construct multiple
buildings. The server will cache the commands and process them one by one.

### Game End (sent by the server)

  - You have won/lost

### Error conditions

  - Client disconnected
    - Game paused, give other player a few seconds to connect
    - Game End if player does not reconnect on grace period
  - Server error
    - Game over, sorry

## Future Ideas

### Game Started

 - Game Speed (i.e. how many milliseconds per tick)
 - Player and Opponent Factions (if we decide to implement more than one)

### Player commands

  - Select where the factory builds the new unit
